the ocean a wild and wonderful marine
amusement-park of biodiversity but have
you ever wondered if the ocean is too
diverse because what terrible nightmare
world will allow this to exist
[Music]
this episode is sponsored by the great
courses plus more details to follow
it's 1848 Karl Marx is publishing the
Communist Manifesto the Niagara Falls
has stopped flowing for the first and
only time and captain mcquay of the HMS
Daedalus has just spotted a 100-foot sea
serpent off the coast of South Africa
McQuaid describes the creature as being
full of large jagged teeth sufficiently
capacious to admit a tall man standing
upright between them and even whipped up
a sketch of the 60-foot creature some
suggest that the creature could be an
ancient plesiosaur others a giant gulper
eel and one even went so far as to
propose it could have been a giant boa
constrictor which is worse a dinosaur or
a 60-foot long ocean snake please vote
now unfortunately we'll never know
exactly what it is then the quays saw we
know more about the surface of the Moon
than we know about the bottom of the
ocean and it's been over a hundred and
fifty years since that sighting it could
be almost anything because the ocean is
a lawless wasteland but it's possible
that they saw the adult form of what
Danish research vessel Dana
caught in January 1930 Anton Brune one
of the scientists involved in the
expedition identified an almost
completely transparent fish about six
feet in length as lepto so phallus a
small clear body larvae of other ocean
eels the problem is that typical Leptis
if Alice are around five to ten
centimeters or two to four inches and
they can easily grow to be up to and
over six feet in length normally but
consider if this thing they found was
only a baby how big could it grow to be
well Bruin did the math Russ really wish
he hadn't but he did Bruin too common
eel larvae and extrapolated their growth
it applied to the creature that he found
he estimated that the monster could grow
to an adult length of over a hundred and
eighty feet
that's 55 metres that's over the length
of a full-sized Olympic swimming pool
the worst part is that both McQuay and
Bruin encountered their creatures off
the coast of South Africa both by the
Cape of Good Hope
well like Cape of God nope so if they
are of the same species we know where
they're stomping grounds are there was
another incident in 2003 where yachtsman
Olivier did curse a song found a
mysterious creature had trapped his
vessel he says something that had
wrapped up their rudder and
it was bigger than a human leg he said
that the whole animal must have been
nearly 30 feet long it had glistening
skin and long arms with suckers which
left impressions on the hull have any
idea of what it could be what it is is
an HR Giger monster come to life it was
most likely the ARCA tudi store as it is
better known the giant squid the giant
squid is known as one of the largest
invertebrates on earth their actual size
is disputed but statistically they can
grow to around 65 feet long from head to
tentacle which is about double the
length of a typical yellow school bus
the mantle which is just the main body
portion of the squid can grow up to 10
square feet with eyes about a foot in
diameter giant squids have two long
feeding tentacles which are covered in
thousands of toothed suckers they use to
pull prey within range of their eight
other tentacles once an animal is
trapped within the arms of this
Lovecraftian horror they are pulled in
towards the sharp beak at the center of
its mantle where prey is sliced up into
bite sized fish giblets
have you ever seen one of these little
marbled boys rolling around in your
bedroom but what would you say if I told
you they could grow to like I don't know
the size of a small cat you'd want to
burn your house down right because
that's what I considered doing what I
found out about this but hold on to
those Molotov cocktails for a second
they can only grow that large at the
bottom of the sea crustaceans of the
genus bath anomaly air smaller cousins
have the ability to roll into a ball
when in danger protecting their soft
chewy in size with a hard carapace they
primarily live at the bottom of the
ocean but they do have the ability to
swim freely through the water some have
even been found at relatively shallow
depths so it is believed that they
vertically migrate at times isopods are
carnivores but they are also what's
known as facultative predators which are
defined as predators that both hunt and
scavenge for food they are also known to
be able to go extended periods of time
without eating interestingly enough
there was a giant isopod in Toba
aquarium in japan's me a prefecture
named simply number one who decided to
stop eating in 2009
and didn't need anything until it passed
away in 2014
number one even learned that their
caretakers wanted them to eat so they
started pretending to nibble on fish
just to appease the humans around them
the venerable Neil Gaiman once said I
think hell is something you carry around
with you not somewhere you go and as
beautiful and poignant as that is he's
dead wrong hell is at the bottom of the
Gulf of Mexico now I hear you asking why
brew why it's just filled with salt
water and crude oil remember this I wish
I didn't but I do in here we are still
talking about it about 200 miles up the
coast of Houston Texas at the oil
platform perdido a remote operated
vehicle or ROV spotted the long tendrils
of some mysterious creature floating
some 2,200 94 meters or one and a half
miles under the sea Jurgen Guerrero
comrades for the biodiversity data
journal characterized this monster as a
member of the genus Magna pina otherwise
known as the big fin or a long arm squid
but the exact species is up for debate
since it's hard to discern anything else
from the shaky ROV footage we know this
because of the thicker regions of the
arms and tentacles held at nearly right
angles to the body access and the
presence of a large central fin along
the mantle the body of the squid what
makes these squids so unique is not just
their size but specifically their length
the Magna pine in the video is estimated
at about 8 meters long by comparison to
the size of the riser that oil drum
looking thing in the video but again
it's very hard to tell exactly
scientists typically determine the total
length of the Magna Pina is about 12
times as mantle length though only 11
specimens are known and deposited in
collections worldwide so most of what we
know about the Magna pinna is
speculation
scientists believe that it eats by
dragging its tentacles across the
seafloor and snatching up smaller
creatures the question is how smart is
this creature
if the Magna pine ax is an active
predator one that deliberately hunts
different animals then we can assume
that it would be quite smart other
cephalopods like cuttlefish are able to
recreate the colors patterns and
textures of their environments with
their skin some squid can even
deliberately edit their own DNA and
there are octopus which are able to
learn by watching the behaviour of
others so it could be a
hyper-intelligent
see tripod straight over the worlds or
you know just a dangly drifter boy
floating through the abyss bro
I'm ashamed to be your friend okay who
left out so many important details
oh I mean if you have anything you'd
like to contribute about the fact that
Magna pine is squid are actually time
travelers or that all crustaceans
possess latent psychic abilities sand
eels you mean water snakes not a fan bro
yeah I've got a guy used to check out
here we see the majestic natural habitat
this isn't for real no it absolutely is
huh
fair point but still wrong folks you
need to be careful but where you get
your information staying informed is a
job we take pride in but that job has
become a lot easier after partnering
with our most recent sponsor the great
courses plus the great courses plus is
an on-demand subscription-based video
learning service what makes these
courses so great is that they've got one
for basically everything no seriously I
mean there are more than 11,000 video
lectures philosophy birds the dark ages
if you've been looking to expand your
knowledge in a field that interests you
there's very likely a great course to do
just that
come man you think I'll just believe
anybody on the internet that easily
no I mean wait yet you yes but generally
no with the great courses plus you don't
even have to worry about where your
information is coming from because every
class is organized by professors from
renowned universities and experts who
have worked with National Geographic the
Smithsonian and the Culinary Institute
of America just to name a few we even
use their service while researching this
episode oceanography exploring Earth's
final wilderness with Professor Harold J
Tobin particularly the fifth lecture
habitats sunlit shelves to the dark
abyss which offered some great insight
regarding today's very topic how
organisms on the ocean floor differ from
their shallow relatives you know what
Dad this sounds like school nice try of
it well you could say that except there
aren't any tests deadlines or schedules
and you could educate yourself at a pace
that you're comfortable with across a
myriad of devices like your TV phone or
desktop grill oh my dick got a video
title how to walk like a cat why didn't
you just leave with that gun you could
have saved us so
much time speaking of time if any of
this is sounded interesting to you now
is the best time to get on board there's
a free trial to get yourself started or
you can sign up at the great courses
plus comm slash brew by signing up
you're not just supporting us and the
channel but you're supporting yourself
and the art of edutainment and I think
that's pretty cool so thank you to the
great courses plus for this opportunity
and without further ado let's get back
into it
there isn't a scientific consensus on
why exactly creatures living at the
lowest depths grow so much larger than
their shallower relatives there are
theories that could explain in part why
this occurs namely Bergman's rule and
cleavers rule Bergman's rule is that as
an environment grows colder the animals
that live there tend to grow bulkier for
example the polar and Kodiak bears are
the largest species of bear on earth and
they both make their homes near and
within the Arctic Circle the deeper down
you go the colder it gets
without light from the Sun we would be
both blind and frozen as we travel
deeper light would become more and more
scarce making the environment colder and
darker some deep-sea creatures would
have to grow to larger sizes than their
shallower cousins to maintain their body
heat cleavers rule is that as an animal
grows larger their bodies become more
efficient this is measured in how many
calories a creature uses per second or
their metabolic rate the idea is that as
an animal grows larger the amount of
energy they expend per second becomes
more efficient and they can go longer
without eating for example a squirrel
will objectively eat less than a blue
whale but the squirrel metabolizes
energy significantly faster and
therefore must feed more often since
food at the bottom of the sea is limited
it stands to reason that animals there
would follow cleavers law and grow
larger to become more efficient keep in
mind that these theories were invented
for and tested with animals that live on
the surface of the earth not at the
bottom of her oceans the effect of
intense water pressure on these theories
has not been fully explored so we should
not follow these as gospel they simply
offer some possible explanations as to
why deep-sea variations of common ocean
creatures grow to nightmarish sizes
human history is fraught with stories of
sea monsters of dragons and creatures of
mythical or
well we have managed to chart most of
the dark corners of this earth the
bottom of the ocean continues to be a
realm of unworldly creation the
creatures we find down there might fill
us with fear and confusion but it is the
curiosity toward the unknown that
arguably helps make us human there is a
quota recalled it says that we are the
middle children of history born too late
to explore earth born too early to
explore space but it's wrong there will
always be mystery wherever or whenever
we happen to be it's just up to us to
find it who knows it might just be
waiting for us to swim deep enough
[Music]